# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## 5.0.0 - TBD
### Changed
- Moved `apiary-gluesync-listener`, `apiary-metastore-auth` and `apiary-ranger-metastore-plugin` (all previously top-level modules) to be submodules under a new top-level module named `hive-metastore-events`.

## 4.2.0 - 2019-08-02
### Added
- `apiary-ranger-metastore-plugin` module has an `ApiaryRangerAuthAllAccessPolicyProvider` class that can be configured in `ranger-hive-security.xml` to allow for an audit-only Ranger pre-event listener. Intent is to configure it on the Apiary read-only HMS instances.

## 4.1.0 - 2019-06-27
### Added
- `privileges-grantor-lambda` supports granting access to tables that were renamed.
- `apiary-metastore-consumers` sub-module of `apiary-metastore-events`.
- `metastore-consumer-common` module that contains common metastore consumer classes.
- `privileges-grantor-core` module that grants "SELECT" privileges on a table.
- `privileges-grantor-lambda` module that triggers `privileges-grantor-core` logic from an AWS Lambda.
- `DbName` and `TableName` as additional message attributes for SNS.

## [4.0.0] - 2019-05-08
### Added
- `apiary-metastore-events` module and moved `apiary-metastore-listener` and `apiary-receivers` into this.

### Changed
- `apiary-metastore-listener` and `apiary-receivers` package paths renamed from `com.expediagroup.apiary.extensions` to `com.expediagroup.apiary.extensions.events` (if you refer to these classes by fully qualified name downstream you will need to update these references before upgrading to this version).

## [3.1.0] - 2019-05-03
### Fixed
- `apiary-metastore-listener` now serializes metastore table properties as a Map instead of a String.

## [3.0.0] - 2019-04-12
### Changed
- Maven group ID is now `com.expediagroup.apiary` (was `com.expedia.apiary`).
- All Java classes moved to `com.expediagroup.apiary` (was `com.expedia.apiary`).
- `hotels-oss-parent` version updated to 4.0.1 (was 2.3.5).

## [2.0.0] - 2019-04-08
### Changed
- `MessageReader.read()` now returns `MessageEvent`, wrapping `ListenerEvent` and `MessageProperty`.

### Added
- `SqsMessageReader.read()` no longer deletes messages. Instead, `SqsMessageReader.delete()` has been added to give more control over inflight messages.

### Removed
- `aws-java-sdk` dependency from `apiary-receiver-sqs`.

## [1.4.0] - 2019-03-27
### Added
- `apiary-receivers` parent module and `apiary-receiver-sqs` sub-module, a library to poll Apiary SQS messaging infrastructure for Hive events.

## [1.3.2] - 2019-03-22
### Fixed
- Metastore events not published to SNS due to the Message Attribute type being undefined.

### Added
- Filtering of the SNS messages produced in ApiarySNSListener using the `eventType` Message Attribute.  

## [1.3.0] - 2019-03-14 [[YANKED]]
### Added
- Filtering of the SNS messages produced in ApiarySNSListener using the `eventType` Message Attribute.

## [1.2.0] - 2019-03-13
### Added
- Old locations for Table and Partitions to ApiarySNSListener events.
- Table parameters with a configurable regular expression to control which table parameters will be added to the ApiarySNSListener message. Default will be none.

## [1.1.0] - 2019-02-15
### Added
- Apiary ReadOnly Auth Event Listener.

### Changed
- Upgraded `hotels-oss-parent` version to 2.3.5 (was 2.3.3).

### Removed
- Transitive dependency on `org.apache.hbase` `hbase-client`. See [#18](https://github.com/ExpediaGroup/apiary-extensions/issues/18).

## [1.0.0] - 2018-10-31
### Added
- Partition Keys with Data types added to the JSON Events from ApiarySNSListener.

### Changed
- `partition` is renamed to `partitionValues` and `oldPartition` to `oldPartitionValues` in the JSON Events from ApiarySNSListener.

### Fixed
- JSON Events from ApiarySNSListener now marshals list as a JSONArray.

## [0.2.0] - 2018-10-03
### Added
- `apiary-gluesync-listener` sub-module.
- `apiary-metastore-metrics` sub-module.
- `apiary-ranger-metastore-plugin` sub-module.

## [0.1.0] - 2018-09-11
### Changed
- Apiary SNS listener now configured using standard AWS configuration mechanisms. See [#4](https://github.com/ExpediaGroup/apiary-extensions/issues/4).

### Added
- A `protocolVersion` field to the SNS messages generated by `ApiarySnsListener`. See [#2](https://github.com/ExpediaGroup/apiary-extensions/issues/2).
- Support for `INSERT` metastore events. See [#6](https://github.com/ExpediaGroup/apiary-extensions/issues/6).

## [0.0.1] - 2018-08-23
### Added
- Initial version to test that releases to Maven Central work.
